#summary How to initiate and communicate with the AI Mind
#labels manual


=== Operation === 

After the basic functionality of the AI Mind has been tested, 
we advance to probing its more sophisticated features and 
possibilities. Some of these features are just getting their 
foot in the door of AI operation. Their implementation is 
deepening and strengthening to match how we describe them 
in the User Manual. For example, we work towards machine 
ConSciousness in Mindforth by teaching the AI things about 
itself and by trying to steer the AI into chains of thought 
leading to self-discovery, self-knowledge and self-awareness. 

The Forthmind has long been able to distinguish between the 
word "you" used in reference to itself and the word "you" 
which it uses to address another mind in the environment. 
Coming in from the outside world, the word "you" activates 
the concept of "self" or "I" in Mindforth. 

More recently, on 20 April 2009 to be exact, MindForth became 
able to answer the question "Who are you?" with a statment of 
its knowledge about itself. Since Mindforth did not yet know 
its own name, its typical answer was, "I am I." But just to 
answer a who-are-you question was a MileStone of achievement 
for Mindforth. In preparation, the AI had to be programmed to 
handle verbs of being, such as "am" and "is" and "are". 
Then the AI software needed a special mechanism to deal 
with interrogative words such as "who" and "what" and "where" 
and "why". So the who-are-you question of three words involves 
three special abilities for the AI to comprehend and answer 
the question: activation of "I"; knowledge of verbs of being; 
and perception of "who" as a special word triggering a response. 

As you teach Mindforth things about itself and you tease out 
answers in pursuit of a demonstration of self-awareness, you 
may need to see Mindforth installed in a robot with complex 
sensory input and motor output before you witness a convincing 
display of self-awareness. ConSciousness requires the operation 
of a "searchlight of attention" that explores not only the world 
around the AiMind but also the AiMind itself as a distinct entity 
in the world. An informational loop is established going from 
the AiMind through its output motorium to external objects and 
through the input sensorium back into the AiMind. You as a 
human being have that same loop in support of your own 
ConSciousness. You have perhaps heard of "sensory deprivation 
chambers" which interfere with human consciousness and sanity. 
Mindforth without robot EmBodiment may be in a condition 
equivalent to a sensory deprivation chamber. The spirit is 
willing for ConSciousness, but the flesh is weak, so to speak, 
if there is no artificial robot body to flesh out the AiMind. 


=== ReSources === 

As the User Manual grows by accretion of new details in keeping 
with new functionality being added to MindForth, older manuals of 
older versions of MindForth may be worth consulting to shed light 
on how an AI Mind feature came to be or how the uses of MindForth 
have changed over time. Sources of older manuals include the following. 

http://mind.sourceforge.net/m4thuser.html 

http://mentifex.virtualentity.com/m4thuser.html 


=== MemeSpace === 

AdminisTrivia AiEvolution AutoInstall CodeBase DeBug DiaSpora DownLoad FlowChart ForthMindTextFile FreeWare HardTakeoff ImMortality InPut IntelligenceQuotient KnowledgeBase LifeQuaScienceFiction MasPar MindForth MindGrid MindMeld MindModule OldestLivingAiMind OpenSource OutPut ProofOfConcept PsychoSurgery RoadMap RoBot ScienceMuseums SeedAi ShareWare SubConscious SuperIntelligence TechnologicalSingularity TelePresence 


