#summary Table of variables used in mindforth artificial intelligence
#labels manual

== Table of Variables ==

===== fyi =====

The fyi (for your information) variable holds a single-digit 
number that determines the display mode of the AI Mind. 
With fyi at zero (0), the display is in normal mode. With 
fyi at one (1), the AI is in transcript mode. With fyi at 
two (2), tutorial mode is in effect. With fyi at three (3), 
diagnostic mode is in effect for troubleshooting. 


==== kbtv ====

The kbtv (knowledge-base traversal) variable holds a numeric 
value that rotates through a range of integer numbers. 
In the kbTraversal module, the rotating kbtv value 
determines which natural-language bootstrap concept 
will be reactivated to start a fresh chain of thought 
going when there has recently been no user input. 
By rotating thorugh a range of values set by the 
AI programmer, kbtv causes the AI Mind to rotate 
through a variety of subject-matter concepts serving 
as points of departure for conversational gambits 
when the AI Mind offers to interact with a human user. 

==== psi ====

The psi variable (from the Greek letter "psi") is a numeric 
identifier of a concept in the conceptual Psi array. 
The psi concepts represent neuronal fibers, or interwoven 
gangs of fibers, in the mindgrid as theorized in the 
AI theory of mind serving as the basis of mindforth AI. 

==== subjpsi ====

The subjpsi (subject psi concept) variable originates in 
the nounPhrase module to keep track of the psi concept number 
of any personal pronoun chosen to be the subject of a 
sentence being generated. In the beVerb module, subjpsi 
supports conditional logic that intervenes in the wrong 
choice of a verb of being, causing the grammatically 
correct verb-form to be substituted for the originally 
wrong choice. As the mindforth AI evolves, this technique 
of verb-form intervention is not an admission of failure 
but rather a splendid example of the gradual improvement 
of an AI algorithm as it performs its mission. 

----

==== Planning ====

The mindforth project is contemplating a massive change of 
module names in the AI source code in order to wikify the names 
for the easier creation of documentation pages. The following 
items appear briefly here in order to determine if they 
automatically create invitational wiki-links for the editing 
and subsequent reading of a wiki-page of documentation.

AiStandards

AIStandards

ALife

AiLife

AudRecog

EMotion

EmotionOut

EnglishCog

EnVocab

FreeWill

GusRecog

HCI

IfAdjective

IfArticle

KbSearch

KBSearch

ListenIn

MetEmPsychosis

MotoriumOut

MotorOut

OlfRecog

SensoriumIn

SensorIn

SpeechAct

SpeechOut

TacRecog

ThInk

ThinkOps

ThinkDeep

ThinkFast

ThinkIng

ThinkMode

ThinkOfIt

ThinkPlex

ThinkSys

ThinkTank

ThinkThru

SuperThink

VisRecog


===== Disclaimer =====

The information on this wiki-page is subject to 
change without notice. Since coding an AI Mind often rushes ahead 
while documentation lags behind, the description of AI variables 
here may fail to keep up with changes in the actual AI code. 
All aspects of variable usage are subject to sudden change. 
A variable may originate in one mind-module and then move 
to one or more other mind-modules. The name of a variable 
may change, as may the reasons for using it and the 
purposes which it serves.

==== Notice ====

Attn Google Code project owners and members! This wiki-page 
shows you how to make a Table of Variables in such a way
that each variable has its own URL in a format such as 
http://code.google.com/p/mindforth/wiki/var#psi and so forth.
If you copy this format for a Table of Variables, please give 
attribution of the however-lame-you-think-it-is idea with a 
clickable link to http://code.google.com/p/mindforth/ 
and please accept thanks in advance.