#summary AI Breakthrough News
#labels mfpj,weblog

== Singularity == 

*AI Breakthrough News* is a double entendre, _mon frere_. 
The duplicity of the idea is embedded in the fact that 
not only are we trying to deliver AI breakthroughs here, 
but also to report on any AI breakthroughs occurring 
elsewhere in the AI NameSpace -- which brings up 
our first ApoLogy: We will employ NerdSpeak in this 
blog to a minor extent, and WikiSpeak to a major, MaximUm 
extent. WikiSpeak, YouSee, is the parlance of two words 
joined together in acrid blogimony, where the wiki software 
AutoMagically creates a link when it sees the two capital 
letters of the words joined ToGether. Annoying it MayBe, 
and we are sorry, but the memetic MeToo is so powerful 
that we cannot pass it up. YouToo, dear reader, shall 
benefit by learning a few tricks here, depending on 
WhoYouAre. Choose your branching logic down below.
IfThen yourself by asking, are you...

 Joe Sixpack? (if so, move along, nothing to see here);

 Joe Ivy? (oh go read The Great Gatsby or something);

 Joe Appcoder? (Yes! Welcome to AI Appcoder Heaven!).

Some WitWag on the AGI mail list of BenGoertzel gave us 
"Joe Appcoder" as a beautiful expression. If we were not 
the nineteenth Dalai Lama of laziness personified, 
we could look it up on OurHost (Google) and give credit 
where credit is due, but right now we are suffering from 
the UrgeToBlog, which has pushed aside the UrgeToCode. 
If what you have read so far gives you the UrgeToKill, 
then thanks for coming by, farewell, and see you 
in the shallows of misery.

We didn't want to be here ourselves at first ("We" 
being the "We" of "We are not amused"). When Google 
Code came on the scene a few years ago (that is, 
eons ago -- in InterNet time) we were happy enough 
with SourceForge, ThankYou, and we did not envision 
coming here until the EonOfCode beckoned us hither. 
What happened was that we gradually lost control 
of, and access to, our galaxy of InterNet domains 
for uploading the SourceCode of artificial intelligence. 
In not a financial panic but a memetic panic, we 
opened up a Google Code AI project, and now We Are One 
with GC AI. And it turned out to be much better than 
we ever expected here. Those geniuses at the 
GooglePlex have outdone themselves with Google Code. 
The wiki format was a stroke of brilliance. 
If you are still here, Mr. Sixpack, let us explain 
it to you. In our previous life, prior to Google Code, 
we had to create HTML webpages of everything we did. 
In our rush to UpLoad our DailyMiracle of AI coding 
and associated LabNotes, we did not have time to 
embed the all-important HyperLink URL's. We had to 
go back in later -- after the fact, so to squeak -- 
and laboriously, unlazymanly, error-pronely embed 
the links to the explanatory documentation. 
But now see here Mr. AppCoder -- the links create 
themselves not only automagically but even 
retroactively -- because you and we -- should you 
choose to accept the mission of starting a GC AI 
project -- need only express our thoughts in 
DoubleSpeak WikiSpeak and then we can create the 
pertinent pre-linked wiki-pages when we get 
around twit. 


== fyi == 

*AI Breakthroughs For Your Information*

This anchorage is the area in which we will scoop the MSM 
(Main Stream Media) with the inside dope from the 
AI rumor mill. It was CaboBob himself who famously 
said that 

 the AI grapevine is small, select and highstrung, 
 vibrating like worldwide cobweb to the proper intrusion 

but we are not the Intruder in the Dusk, we live and breathe 
AI from dawn to dusk. And why is it an Anchorage and not 
a Seattle or a Silicon Valley? It's because every header 
on these GC wiki-pages is automagically a URL AnchorTag.
http://code.google.com/p/mindforth/wiki/WebLog#fyi is 
what you are reading right now for your information. 